this is the VOA special English
Agriculture report generations of
newcomers have brought their tastes and
sometimes their farming skills to
American soil these include refugees who
have gotten help from government
agencies and private groups to grow
crops on community farms these farms and
gardens can be found across the country
bhanchu refugees from somalia helped
start the new roots community farm in
san diego california many of them did
not have much money or much fresh
produce in their lives some especially
young people were eating unhealthy fast
food the refugees wanted to grow their
own food Cambodians and other groups in
San Diego were in a similar situation a
community farm seemed like a good answer
the refugees got help from the group
that had resettled many of them the
International Rescue Committee but
getting a permit to use some open land
owned by the city took about two years
the new roots community farm opened in
2009 the farm is almost one hectare
people can learn how to grow foods from
back home as well as traditional
American crops the growers sell some of
their produce at a market place and two
restaurants one result of the community
farm is that people are learning about
foods from other people's homelands
First Lady Michelle Obama who has her
own vegetable garden at the White House
visited the farm in San Diego last year
a group called the Somali Bantu zig walk
community has operated a farm for
several years near boise idaho da dairy
neuro is the group's president he says
we are farming people we like to farm
mr. neuro came to the United States in
2004 he and his family had been living
in a refugee camp in Kenya he says more
than 15 crops are grown without
pesticides at the farm including
potatoes tomatoes kale lettuce cabbage
onion and shallots the farm also grows
two kinds of corn mr. neuro explains
that we have African corn and we have
American corn Americans they like soft
corn and the bond too we like hard corn
the community group sells some of its
produce at a farmers market and has now
bought storage freezers the group has
also donated food to other communities
the Idaho State Office for Refugees has
advice on its website about starting a
community garden you can find a link at
VOA special English com for VOA special
English I'm Alex Villarreal
you